Towards the end of the film, Tyler has redeemed himself by having developed into someone who is there for Zak and believes in him as his mentor figure. This is exemplified in over-the-shoulder shots where Tyler repeatedly says to Zak “I know you got this, alright you got this, I know you can do this”. The over-the-shoulder shots allow us to see Zak’s perspective, allowing us to understand their close relationship in which Tyler is the mentor figure, the one who has provided Zak everything he needed to get to this point. Tyler is now the one giving back to those he cares about. Furthermore, he repeats phrases of “you got this” (more or less), emphasising that he truly believes in Zak, that he believes that Zak himself can accomplish what he puts his mind to - “this”. The repetition of “this” shows that Tyler is living in the now, no longer attached to his pain of the past. All that matters is this thing in this moment in this present. Additionally, his cap, a symbol for his trauma, is turned back; he is leaving this trauma behind him in the past. This also allows us to see his eyes - his “window to his soul” - clearly faced forward and we understand that this is what Tyler’s true character is: someone who wants to care for, pay attention to, and watch over his loved ones and family. His attention to his family is all he wants to matter. A further example of this would be the medium two shot displaying Tyler and Duncan about to hit him from behind. The two shot showcases their relationship towards each other, especially how Duncan is about to cause harm to Tyler. However, Tyler does not notice this, and is instead fixated on Zak in front of him performing the atomic throw. This fixation displays his attention to Zak, and to his family, what he cares about. In this moment, there is not one thing more important than Zak. Furthermore, Duncan approaches Tyler from behind, which Tyler ignores for Zak, symbolising how Tyler is now facing forward, to Zak and his future as Zak’s family, instead of dwelling on and running away from what’s behind him, his past. This showcase of attention and focus towards his family makes us, the audience, feel satisfied, and proud. We have watched Tyler struggle to come to terms with his grief and past, but now he has finally completed his arc. He has grown, and he has changed into a better, more caring person, and we are satisfied with his completion of his growth, and proud with who he is in this very moment. The directors use Tyler’s completed development here to bring the theme full circle, showing us how he has truly redeemed himself, how he is not just his tragic past anymore, but how he is also his bright future.
